---
layout: post
title:  OO
description: Object-Oriented Programming
permalink: Object-Oriented-Programming

css:
    - /lib/lightbox/css/lightbox.css
js:
    - //ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.7.2/jquery.min.js
    - /lib/lightbox/js/lightbox.js
---

{{ page.title }}
================

# Basics

OO facilitates abstraction, code reuse.  
Code reuse is the real hallmark of OO, can perform in subtle ways.

Obvious reuse: Shape defines render(), children make use of it. 

Subtle reuse: **single** function is a different 
class that computes area of an array of Shape objects. No need to have function for computing 
area of array of Sqaures, function for area of array of Circles.

Do not confuse with generics, which also facilitate reuse, mostly for libraries

## Preliminaries

Understand: inheritance syntax, concept of abstract, which function is called in subclass, which in superclass.


Understand inner classes, static vs nonstatic. Understand anonymous classes. When to use anonymous class. Closure.

Understand interfaces

Understand how inheritance "leaks" (which function is called)

E.g., Shape area() is abstract, children must implement().

Lots of subtle things can go wrong (order of construction, dynamic dispatch and static methods, see Homework 3 [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qFtlfAydwUwz039gl5Ra1e4yOc0QY2Zqii_bHuVBvTk/edit) (HWs 1, 2, 4 are pretty nice too)

## Java review

[OO Syntax](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cWUq0f07xetmwDFitz02bCPewBNRihxjL-8du8YlbWE/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000&slide=id.p)

# Design Patterns

General principles, not in a library

3 types: creational, behavioral, structural.

TODO: add 2-3 sentences about each

## Creational: 

static factory, builder, abstract factory, factory methods, singleton

## Behavioral: 

strategy, template, observer, state, command, iterator

## Structural: 

adapter, decorator, composite, facade, flyweight, proxy

## Example:

The duck simulator example from HFDP
shows a lot of different patterns working together, highly recommended.

## Questions:

* What is the most commonly used pattern?
* Difference between strategy, template?
* Difference between object and class adapter?
* Difference between decorator and adapter?
* Examples of your using these
* Standard libraries: which do they use? (like my HW problem)
* What is an antipattern? Give examples.
* What pattern does JSP violate?
* What is dependency inversion?
* What is dependency injection?
* Write an iterator that takes a function object that has 
    a single boolean-valued method, check(Student), and iterates
    over students in the array for which check returns true.
* Compare push and pull for observers
* You want to create an RPG game. The players encounter monsters randomly in a maze. They can also find some treasures in the maze. What design patterns will you use to create the game and how will you use them? 
* What are the problems you may run into, if you try to subclass your Singleton code? When you make the required changes, is it still Singleton? 
* What is the advantage of the Factory Method Pattern when you only have one Concrete Product? 
* What is the difference between factory method and abstract factory pattern? 
* What is the difference between the class adapter and the object adapter? Could you please give the definitions for them and compare them?
* What are hooks really supposed to be used for in template pattern? 
* Collection pattern: How does remove() behave under multiple threads that may be using different iterators over the same collection of objects? [There are no dumb questions]
* Draw a state diagram for a Gumball Machine 
* JAVA API Please find the design patterns used for each following JAVA API.

javax.xml.parsers.DocumentBuilderFactory#newInstance() 

java.lang.StringBuilder#append()

java.util.Collections#unmodifiableXXX()

java.lang.Runtime#getRuntime()

java.util.Calendar#getInstance()

javax.servlet.http.HttpSessionBindingListener

java.util.Comparator#compare()

java.util.Arrays#asList()

java.awt.Container#add(Component)

java.lang.Integer#valueOf(int)

java.lang.Runnable

java.util.Pattern

java.util.TreeSet#descendingIterator()

javax.servlet.http.HttpServlet

* Write your own Java I/O Decorator decorator that converts all uppercase characters to lowercase in the input stream. In other words, if we read in “I know the Decorator Pattern therefore I RULE!” then your decorator converts this to “i know the decorator pattern therefore i rule!” [4]
* You find your application is running out of memory because it allocates lots of binary trees. Many are almost the same. What pattern can help you exploit this similarity and how?

## Refactoring

Relationship between code smells, IDE and refactoring engine, and design patterns?

# Java Effectively

Some great points about Java generally, and OO/generics specifically in Bloch book

 * Memory leak in Java
 * Avoid creating unneccessary objects
 * List vs arrays, if function accepts Foo[] argument and Bar extends Foo, will it accept Bar[]? What if List<Foo>?
 * Why is <code>List<List<String\>\> x = ... </code> illegal?
 * What is a defensive copy?
 * Importance of equals, hashCode, transitivity
 * Implement compare, compare vs comparable
 * Best practices around excepttions, e.g., 
 ** apppriate to abstraction.
 ** what exception to use if input is negative? user is not logged in? 


# Best resources: 
* [My class notes](http://bit.ly/designpatternclass) (add quizzes and homeworks) based on HFDP
* Classic Gang-of-Four book, is IMO too theoretical (smalltalk, excessive formalism)
* Head-first Design Patterns (HFDP): very verbose, cartoonish, but a great read.
* [Java design pattern essentials](http://www.amazon.com/Java-Design-Pattern-Essentials-Edition/dp/0956575846/ref=dp_ob_title_bk) I like this book, it is similar to the GoF book with Java as the language.










